README.md, before:

# emod-eegify

Code for analyzing EEG collected during the EEG study. Protocol discussion: _Choose or Fuse: Enriching Data Views with Multi-label Emotion Dynamics. Cang et al. (ACII 2022)_


## File descriptions
- ```read_data.py```: utils to load CSV files and optionally save to a pickle file
- ```clean_data.py```: utils to clean up raw files, i.e., fix sampling to 1kHz, apply notch filter to eeg, apply bandpass to eeg, etc.
- ```calculate_features.py```: utils to calculate features from EEG data (2D Differential Entropy)
- ```config.py```: constant declarations
- ```train.py```: main training script 
- ```utils.py```: general purpose methods (pickle and load pickled files)


These are the set of modules used for classification of EEG signals using emotion labels

## Guide
1. unzip trial_data_split-anon.zip into the a folder such as data/trial_data_split-anon (should contain .csv files)
2. Run the following functions from the terminal in the src directory
    - ```read_data.py```: to generate pickle files (*subject_data.pk*)
    - ```clean_data.py```: to adjust the sampling rate to 1000 Hz, apply filters to eeg and generate merged pickle files (*merged_data.pk*)
    - ```calculate_features.py```: calculate the eeg features and save the features by participant, i.e *p06_featurized_data.pk*
    - ```calculate_labels.py```: calculate the set of labels and save them by participant, i.e *p06_labels.pk*
    - ```train.py```: read through every *_featurized_data.pk* and *_labels.pk* and train an independent model for each participant and save the results in *_results.pk*

Commit message:

remove fsr.csv from read_data

README.md, after:

# emod-eegify

Code for analyzing EEG collected during the EEG study. Protocol discussion: _Choose or Fuse: Enriching Data Views with Multi-label Emotion Dynamics. Cang et al. (ACII 2022)_



The dataset consists of comma separated value (.csv) files organized by participant. For each participant there are four csv files: brain activity, keypress, calibrated words and joystick data. The structure looks something like the following:
```
├── feel
│   ├── p10
│   │   ├── calibrated_words.csv
│   │   ├── eeg.csv
│   │   ├── fsr.csv
│   │   └── joystick.csv
│   ├── p12
│   │   ├── calibrated_words.csv
│   │   ├── eeg.csv
│   │   ├── fsr.csv
│   │   └── joystick.csv

```

## Getting Started
1. unzip feel.zip and the subsequent zip files within: File structure should look like feel/p* where * is an integers(should contain .csv files)
2. (optional)  Run ```read_feel_data.py```: to generate a single pickle file from the .csv files (*subject_data.pk*) for later processing

## File descriptions
- ```read_data.py```: utils to load CSV files and optionally save to a pickle file
- ```clean_data.py```: utils to clean up raw files, i.e., fix sampling to 1kHz, apply notch filter to eeg, apply bandpass to eeg, etc.
- ```calculate_features.py```: utils to calculate features from EEG data (2D Differential Entropy)
- ```calculate_labels.py```: utils to calculate labels
- ```calculate_validation.py```: util to calculate train/validation split (train is later further split into train\test)
- ```config.py```: constant declarations
- ```train_hc.py```: main training script 
- ```utils.py```: general purpose methods (pickle and load pickled files)


These are the set of modules used for classification of EEG signals using emotion labels

## Guide
1. unzip fell.zip into the a folder such feel (should contain .csv files)
2. Run the following functions from the terminal in the src directory
    - ```read_data.py```: to generate pickle files (*subject_data.pk*)
    - ```clean_data.py```: to adjust the sampling rate to 1000 Hz, apply filters to eeg and generate merged pickle files (*merged_data.pk*)
    - ```calculate_features.py```: calculate the eeg features and save the features by participant, i.e *p06_featurized_data.pk*
    - ```calculate_labels.py```: calculate the set of labels and save them by participant, i.e *p06_labels.pk*
    - ```calculate_validation.py```: calculate the validation\train split, i.e *p06_val_featurized_data.pk*
    - ```train_hc.py```: read through every *_featurized_data.pk* and *_labels.pk* and train an independent model for each participant and save the results in *_results.pk*
